= git-deploy

= Description

git-deploy is a deployment tool to allow for quick and easy deployments based on
the changes in a git repository.

It was originally used to update multiple WordPress installations on shared hosting environments.
Ideally Capistrano would have been the perfect tool, but generally shared hosting environments only
allow for FTP access, which Capistrano does not support. Likewise rather than using a standard FTP program,
when doing a deployment, I only need to upload the files that have been changed. This saves me both time and bandwidth.

I needed something like Capistrano, but simpler.

git-deploy supports deployment over SSH and FTP.

= Installation

git-deploy requires the Ruby gems <code>net-ssh</code>, <code>net-sftp</code>, <code>net-scp</code>.

You can install them like so:

  sudo gem install net-ssh net-sftp net-scp

= Usage

In the root directory of your source code, create a <code>deploy.yml</code> file.

Here is a sample code:

  'settings':
    ignore_if_same_revision: true

  'ftp://example:password@example.com:21/path/to/installation':
    skip: false

You use the URI scheme to define the location of your installation.
If you do not want to use the URI scheme, and instead use another identifier. Feel free to do so.
Just enter the settings for the host like so:

  'example':
    skip: false
    scheme: ftp
    user: example
    password: password
    host: example.com
    port: 21
    path: /path/to/installation
		
Note: The port field is optional in both the URI scheme and the broken down options

Once you have done creating the <code>deploy.yml</code>, upload to your server a file called +REVISION+ with the revision string for the current revision residing on the server

After you have commited your code to the repository. You can run

  git deploy


You will also need to upload a +REVISION+ file to your server inside the installation path, ie "/path/to/installation"

To create a +REVISION+ file for +HEAD+, exexcute:

  git rev-parse HEAD > REVISION

This will create a +REVISION+ file which you will need to upload to your server

== Additional Keys

The configuration for a site has additional and optional options:

* <tt>skip</tt>: +true+ or +false+ (default). Whether to skip the configuration
* <tt>debug_mode</tt>: +true+ or +false+ (default).  For FTP only. Outputs debugging information
* <tt>passive</tt>:  +true+ or +false+ (default). For FTP only. Enable passive connection.
* <tt>local_path</tt>: _string_.  Only consider files to upload in a particular local path.

= How It Works

<code>git-deploy</code> stores file called +REVISION+ on your server inside the root path to your application.
This file stores the current revision of your application residing on your server.

When you run a <code>git deploy</code>, git-deploy downloads the +REVISION+ file, and checks to see what
files are different between revisions and either upload the changed files or deletes them from the server.

= TODO

* Create a Ruby gem for the script. Sadly <code>gem-deploy</code> was taken.
